# ZFIPModels
IP models for minimum zero forcing sets, forts, and related graph parameters

## Authors
*[Thomas R. Cameron](https://thomasrcameron.com)
	* Mathematics Department, Penn State Behrend
	* [Email: trc5475@psu.edu](mailto:trc5475@psu.edu)

## Instructions
Below are instructions for the installation of HornerK, the testing of Horner, and compiling of TeX figures. These instructions have been tested on macOS Sonoma 14.5.

### Installation
First, open the make.inc file to specify the C++ compiler and flags. The default settings use the *g++* compiler with flags *-O3*. Also, the include directory and link directory for the local Gurboi installation. Once these parameters are set, the tests in the C++ folder can be installed by running *make install test_name* in the terminal. The command *make uninstall* can be used to remove all executable files. 

### smallg test
The smallg test takes arguments order and option and uses them in a Nauty geng call, which produces all non-isomorphic graphs of a certain order. The order refers to the number of vertices in the graph, while the option is specific to the geng function. For example, the option of -g causes all graphs to be outputted from Nauty in the graph6 format, which is expected by the smallg test. The option of mine:maxe would only outpute graphs where the number of edges is between mine and maxe. 

For each graph generated by Nauty, the smallg test computes the zero forcing number, minimum and maximum propagation time, realized propagation time interval, throttling number, fractional zero forcing number, all minimal forts, and the fort number. These results are document in a csv file, which is located in the csv_files folder. In addition, the average elapsed time for each model is printed in the terminal. 

###  randg test
The randg test takes arguments order, num, and p (0-10) and uses them in a Nauty genrang call, which produces num random graphs of a certain order with edge probability p/10.

For each graph generated by Nauty, the randg test computes the zero forcing number, minimum and maximum propagation time, realized propagation time interval, throttling number, fractional zero forcing number, all minimal forts, and the fort number. These results are document in a csv file, which is located in the csv_files folder. In addition, the average elapsed time for each model is printed in the terminal. 

### hypercube ptinterval test
The hypercube ptinterval test takes arugment d, which denotes the dimension of the generated hypercube. 

For each hypercube, the hypercube ptinterval test computes the realized propagation time interval. In addition, the elapsed time is printed in the terminal. 

### tree fort test
The tree fort test takes arguments order and option and uses them in a Nauty gentreeg call, which produces all non-isomorphic trees of a certain order. The order refers to the number of vertices in the graph, while the option is specific to the gentreeg function. For example, the option of -s causes all graphs to be outputted from Nauty in the sparse6 format, which is expected by the tree fort test. The option -Z#:# would place bounds on the diamaeter of the graph. 

For the trees generated by Nauty, the tree fort test reports the trees (by their sparse6 format) that have the maximum number of minimal forts. In addition, the diameter and max degree of each tree.

### bhhs test
The bhhs test computes the zero forcing number, fractional zero forcing number, and fort number for all 7 graphs of order eight that have a gap between their maximum nullity and zero forcing number (bhhs graphs). This test is used to show that the fort number and fractional zero forcing number are lower bounds on the maximum nullity for all graphs of order eight and less. 

### bhhs_vs_test
The bhhs vs test computes the zero forcing number, fractional zero forcing number, and fort number for 49 random vertex sums of bhhs graphs. 

For each generated graph, the maximum nullity is computed using vertex sum formulas for minimum rank. The maximum nullity can be compared to the fort number and fractional zero forcing number to see that these values are lower bounds. The results are documented in a casv file, which is located in the csv_files folder. In addition, the TeX folder has code for visualizing this data. 

### bhhs_es_test
The bhhs vs test computes the zero forcing number, fractional zero forcing number, and fort number for 49 random edge sums of bhhs graphs.

For each generated graph, the maximum nullity is computed using edge sum formulas for minimum rank. The maximum nullity can be compared to the fort number and fractional zero forcing number to see that these values are lower bounds. The results are documented in a casv file, which is located in the csv_files folder. In addition, the TeX folder has code for visualizing this data.